
advanced >brf sample
====================

this sample file is intended
to include multiple kinds of
advanced formatting tasks so
that we can better under-
stand the international
needs of braille formatting.
where are the differences?
the similarities? remember
to keep notes along with
your transcription so that
your decisions can be better
understood by the other
folks in the working group.

     table of contents
     -----------------

advanced >brf sample   #,a
  the raven .......... #:c
  letter #a to mrs.
    saville, england.  #/e
  tables ............. #?f
    simple table ..... #?f
#a   table of contents   #a
    complex table .... #?f
math samples ......... #=ad
  complex equation ... #=ad
  simpler example .... #=ae
  number line ........ #=ae
  vertical addition
    problems ......... #=af
  inline math ........ #=af
kitchen sink section   #(ah
  computer code ...... #(ah
    with font and in-
      dents .......... #(ah
  end notes, type
    forms, and a block
    quote ............ #(ai
  different language   #*ba
  here are a bunch of
    headings ......... #*bb
    this is a head-
      ing #c ......... #*bb
  finally, some dia-
    critics .......... #*bc
index ................ #,,bd
  >a ................. #,,bd
  >b ................. #,,be


#a:  table of contents   #b

the raven
---------

by edgar a. poe

    once upon a midnight
      dreary, while i pon-
      dered, weak and weary,
    over many a quaint and
      curious volume of for-
      gotten lore'-
    while i nodded, nearly
      napping, suddenly
      there came a tapping,
    as of some one gently
      rapping, rapping at my
      chamber door.
 e  ('tis some visiter,) i
      muttered, (tapping at
      my chamber door'-
    only this and nothing
      more.)

    ah, distinctly i remem-
      ber it was in the
      bleak december;
#c       the raven       #c
    and each separate dying
      ember wrought its
      ghost upon the floor.
aj  eagerly i wished the
      morrow;'- vainly i had
      sought to borrow
    from my books surcease
      of sorrow'- sorrow for
      the lost lenore'-
    for the rare and radiant
      maiden whom the angels
      name lenore'-
    nameless here for ever-
      more.

  this text is not a part of
the line numbered poetry and
is just a paragraph on the
same print page. how does
that affect your transcrip-
tion?






#c       the raven       #d

letter #a
to mrs. saville, england.
-------------------------

 a  st. petersburgh,
    dec.#aath, #ag'-.
 b    you will rejoice to
    hear that no disaster
    has accompanied the com-
    mencement of
 c  an enterprise which you
    have regarded with such
    evil forebodings. i ar-
    rived here
 d  yesterday, and my first
    task is to assure my
    dear sister of my wel-
    fare and
 e  increasing confidence in
    the success of my under-
    taking.

  this text is not a part of
the line numbered prose.
it's just a regular para-
graph on the same page, does
#d       letter #a       #e
that have any effect on the
transcription process?


tables
------

simple table
::::::::::::

animal   meat     dairy
:::::::  :::::::  :::::
cow ...  beef ..  milk
chicken  poultry  egg

complex table
:::::::::::::
  note that this table exam-
ple will not fit on a print-
ed page, so to view the en-
tire table, please use
word's web layout view. in
your notes section, please
explain the different



#d?        tables        #f
var.#a

'<=country'<= :: >eu
  accession :: capital ::
  official language'=s= ::
  population
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
germany :: #aieg :: berlin
  :: german :: #ha,gii,fjj
belgium :: #aieg :: brussels
  :: dutch, french, german
  :: #aa,jjg,jbj
france :: #aieg :: paris ::
  french :: #fe,hba,hhe
italy :: #aieg :: rome ::
  italian :: #fj,fdb,cjh
luxembourg :: #aieg :: lux-
  embourg :: luxembourgish,
  french, german :: #eaa,hdj
netherlands :: #aieg ::
  amsterdam :: dutch ::
  #af,fhe,bjj
denmark :: #aigc :: copen-
  hagen :: danish ::
  #e,edg,jhh
ireland :: #aigc :: dublin
  :: irish, english ::
#e        tables         #g
  #d,dfg,hed
united kingdom :: #aigc ::
  london :: english ::
  #fb,jda,gjh
greece :: #aiha :: athens ::
  greek :: #aa,abe,agi
spain :: #aihf :: madrid ::
  spanish, galician, cata-
  lan!,valencian, basque ::
  #dg,aej,hai
portugal :: #aihf :: lisbon
  :: portuguese ::
  #aa,cag,aib














#e        tables         #h
var.#b

germany
  >eu accession: #aieg
  capital: berlin
  official language'=s=:
    german
  population: #ha,gii,fjj
belgium
  >eu accession: #aieg
  capital: brussels
  official language'=s=:
    dutch, french, german
  population: #aa,jjg,jbj
france
  >eu accession: #aieg
  capital: paris
  official language'=s=:
    french
  population: #fe,hba,hhe
italy
  >eu accession: #aieg
  capital: rome
  official language'=s=:
    italian
  population: #fj,fdb,cjh

#e        tables         #i
luxembourg
  >eu accession: #aieg
  capital: luxembourg
  official language'=s=:
    luxembourgish, french,
    german
  population: #eaa,hdj
netherlands
  >eu accession: #aieg
  capital: amsterdam
  official language'=s=:
    dutch
  population: #af,fhe,bjj
denmark
  >eu accession: #aigc
  capital: copenhagen
  official language'=s=:
    danish
  population: #e,edg,jhh
ireland
  >eu accession: #aigc
  capital: dublin
  official language'=s=:
    irish, english
  population: #d,dfg,hed


#e        tables        #aj
united kingdom
  >eu accession: #aigc
  capital: london
  official language'=s=:
    english
  population: #fb,jda,gjh
greece
  >eu accession: #aiha
  capital: athens
  official language'=s=:
    greek
  population: #aa,abe,agi
spain
  >eu accession: #aihf
  capital: madrid
  official language'=s=:
    spanish, galician, cata-
    lan!,valencian, basque
  population: #dg,aej,hai
portugal
  >eu accession: #aihf
  capital: lisbon
  official language'=s=:
    portuguese
  population: #aa,cag,aib


#e        tables        #aa
  this open book graphic
'<=symbol'<= indicates any-
time that you should prob-
ably read a book rather than
relying on wikipedia when
making a sidebar about cana-
da.'*#a












::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
'*#a this footnote is to
  make clear that the histo-
  ry of canada is rich and
  detailed and really de-
  serves a lot more space
  than this formatting docu-
  ment is giving it.
#f        tables        #ab
+::::::::::::::::::::::::::/
l history of canada        
l sidebar                  
l   the history of canada  
l begins with the arrival  
l of the paleo-indians to  
l north america thousands  
l of years ago to the      
l present day. the lands   
l encompassing present-day 
l canada have been inhab-  
l ited for millennia by    
l indigenous peoples, with 
l distinct trade networks, 
l spiritual beliefs, and   
l styles of social organi- 
l zation.                  
l   for more information,  
l you'll need more space   
l than this sidebar al-    
l lows. '<=symbol'<= this  
l sidebar is in a box that 
l is blue.                 
h::::::::::::::::::::::::::j



#f        tables        #ac

math samples
============


complex equation
----------------

  this is an example that is
nonsensical but is really,
really long so we can see
what happens when an equa-
tion is longer than the
available braille line.

   a2b +c +d +e +f +g +h'
     +j` =ab +ac +ad +ae'
     +af +ag +ah +aj

  and now here is some more
text so we can see how regu-
lar text interacts with a
displayed equation.




#g   complex equation   #ad

simpler example
---------------

  this simple example is the
equation for finding the
radius of a circle.
   >a =<p'r|;
  and some more text for
good measure.


number line
-----------

9:::w:::w:::%:::w:::w:::w::o
   -#d -#b  #j  #b  #d  #f

figure #a': even though this
  number line is a picture,
  please braille it as
  though it is a number line
  and not a picture. we'll
  do an example of a picture
  in a moment. please also
  braille this caption
  though, even this part.
#g     number line      #ae

vertical addition problems
--------------------------

var.#a':

#hd "+#ha "=...
#bd "+#ia "=...
#c "+#da "=...
#he "+#b "=...

var.#b':

 #hd   #bd   # c   #he
+#ha  +#ia  +#da  +# b
::::  ::::  ::::  ::::
 ...   ...   ...   ...


inline math
-----------

  making this advanced docu-
ment is a lot more difficult
than i anticipated. really
went beyond my knowledge of
how to use word. please for-
#g     inline math      #af
give the shortcuts that i
took to make it happen+
here's an inline math equa-
tion: #b "+#b "=#d. really
stretches the definition of
the word (equation) but
should meet our purposes.




















#g     inline math      #ag

kitchen sink section
====================


computer code
-------------

with font and indents
:::::::::::::::::::::

var.#a':

$$import mysql.connector

mydb = mysql.connector."
  connect(
  host=""localhost"",
  user=""myusername"",
  password=""mypassword"",
  database=""mydatabase""
)

mycursor = mydb.cursor()

sql = """s"e"l"e"c"t *
  "f"r"o"m customers
#h    computer code     #ah
  "w"h"e"r"e address "like
  ''%way%''""

mycursor.execute(sql)

myresult = mycursor.fetch"
  all()

for x in myresult:
  print(x)'.

var.#b': '<=in #h-dot
  braille code, if supported
  by the embosser'<=


end notes, type forms,
and a block quote
----------------------

'<=yellow: ...'.
  strikethrough: !=...!=
  blue: !!...!.
  green: *...*
  handwriting: $...$'<=


#h    end notes, ...    #ai
  this example is to show
off some different kinds of
type forms. this text, for
example, is highlighted yel-
low.'. and the text after
the colon has a strike-
through: !=why would you put
text in just to strike
through it?!= !!and for
good measure, here is some
text with blue highlight-
ing.!. *and here is some
green highlighting.* $and
this text is a very differ-
ent font and sort of looks
like handwriting.$ and fi-
nally, note that this text
has an endnote.'=i'=

    here is a quote. it is
  so profound that it must
  be indented slightly and
  that makes it a block-
  quote.

  here is some regular text
to get us back on track af-
#h*   end notes, ...    #bj
ter that blockquote.


different language
------------------

  here is some text that is
in french. it is from le
monde and is about bob dy-
lan. note that it is dis-
played.

    <<$travers%e par la
  $route '66, la ville de
  $tulsa, dans l.$oklahoma,
  est devenue, le '1# mai
  '2#22, le $louvre des fans
  de $bob $dylan/ $ce jour-
  l{, le $bob $dylan $center
  a ouvert ses portes, troi-
  si~me %tape d%sormais d.un
  p~lerinage qui passe par
  $hibbing, dans le $minne-
  sota -- localit% de l.en-
  fance de celui qui est n%
  en '1941 sous le nom de
  $robert $zimmerman --, et
#i   different lang.    #ba
  $greenwich $village, le
  quartier boh~me new-yor-
  kais d.o} il se mit en
  route pour la gloire/'.

  here is some non-displayed
text that is english to make
a clear division between the
french text and the rest of
the english text.


here are a bunch
of headings
----------------

this is a heading #c
::::::::::::::::::::

this is a heading #d
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

this is a heading #e

this is a heading #f
  in your notes about your
transcription, tell us which
#i       headings       #bb
of those six headings mat-
tered to your braille rules.
how do your braille rules
manage different headings?


finally, some diacritics
------------------------

  braille noun >{'br"al>} a
system of writing for the
blind that uses characters
made up of raised dots
  >html noun >{'"ach-='=t"e-
='=em-'el>} a markup lan-
guage that is used to create
documents on the world wide
web incorporating text, gra-
phics, sound, video, and
hyperlinks







#i,)     diacritics     #bc

index
=====


>a
abbreviations
'- above sentences, #ah-#d
'- above!,below sentences
  optional format for,
    #ah-#e
'- endnotes, #af-#ac
'- exercises, #aj-#ag
'- font attributes omitted,
  #e-#d
'- parts of speech, #e-#d
'- postal code in affilia-
  tion, #b-#i
'- punctuation, #af-#ac
'- tables, #aa-#ac, #aa-#ae
  acronyms, #aa-#ac
  headings, #aa-#ab
'- transcriber's notes,
  #c-#c
'- academic degrees, #b-#d,
  #b-#ab

#aa      index >a       #bd
'- acknowledgements
  cartoons, #ad-#i
  format for, #b-#ae
advertising copy in maga-
  zines
'- omitted, #b-#ad
affiliations
'- authors, #b-#ab
'- transcriber!,transcrip-
  tion segment, #b-#i
agency decisions, #a-#b
'- endnote sections, #af-#ad
'- expendable materials,
  #aj-#a
  repeated headings in,
    #aj-#a


>b
back matter
'- definition of, #a-#g
>bana. see braille authority
  of north america
bibliographies, #bb-#a
'- annotated, #bb-#c
'- font attributes, #bb-#b

#aa      index >b       #be
'- foreign language
  format for, #bb-#b
'- format for, #bb-#a
'- long dash, #bb-#b
'- punctuation in, #bb-#b
blank cells
'- analogies, #ah-#d
'- box lines, #g-#b
'- braille guide words,
  #ba-#f
'- centered headings, #d-#f
'- columns, #aa-#d
'- displayed materials,
  #i-#c, #i-#d
'- end-of-volume statement,
  #a-#h
'- entry word segment,
  #ba-#aj
'- entry words, #bj-#g
'- insertions, #ah-#e,
  #ah-#g






#aa      index >b       #bf

endnotes
::::::::
'=i'= i'm sorry for the con-
  trast issues that may have
  come up with all those
  highlighting examples. i
  hope that the text made it
  easy enough to know what
  was going on.


        ::::::::::::














#aa      index >b       #bg




























